So let's make sure we work with MongoDB.
And for that, we set up this client file,
this helpers client file,
with a connect and a getDb function.
We're calling connect whenever our deno server starts up,
and now we wanna call getDb to get access
to the connect database whenever we wanna work with it.
And as a side note, the MongoClient from the Mongo library
will automatically take care about the connection,
it will manage that connection.
It will even set up multiple simultaneous connections
and use a concept called connection pooling
to give us the fastest possible way of working with MongoDB.
So all of that is taken care of by this Mongo module.
We just need to call getDb
when we now wanna work with the database.
And of course there are various places
where we do wanna work with it.
One obvious place is when we want to get access
to our todos.
So here in this get todos route,
I now I want to call getDb to get access to a database,
and then call collection on that
to connect to a specific collection in that database.
And since we're the one managing the database,
we could expect a todos collection, the name is up to you,
but of course, you should then be consistent
when you connect to that collection.
So we assume that there will be a todos collection.
If there won't be, it will be created on the fly by MongoDB.
And by calling the find method on it,
we will actually find all elements in that todos collection.
Now find will return a promise.
So I'll add async here, so that we can await this.
And what we'll get back here are our todos.
So we'll get back all the documents
that can be found in this collection,
and that will be all our todos.
Now those todos will be in a specific MongoDB format.
These will be objects,
but objects that in the end will have an _id field,
which will be added automatically by MongoDB,
which will be of type ObjectId, a MongoDB specific type.
And then they will have a text field,
which will be some string.
So that's how the individual documents here will look like.
And here we're, of course,
getting an array of such documents.
So to work with those, I want to transform them.
So my transformed todos will be the todos where I call map.
And that will execute a function on every todo,
and then allows us to transform every todo
into a new object.
So here we then return this new transformed object.
And there, let's say, I just want to have a id field,
so not _id, but just id,
and that should be our todo._id,
but there we can access $oid field.
Now this might look strange,
but this will in the end be a property provided
by the Mongo library
on the documents it fetches from MongoDB.
And that will hold the generated id,
generated by MongoDB as a string,
and not as this strange ObjectId object thing here.
So that will be the string id,
which I'll then store in a new id property.
In addition, there will be a text property,
and I wanna keep that,
so I'll simply set text equal to todo.text.
Now here, we also should assign a type
to not have the implicit any type.
And I'll set the type here to an object type
where we'll have an _id field,
which will be of type ObjectId.
That's now something you can import from the Mongo library.
So I'll copy that URL into todos.ts,
but I'll not import Mongo client or database,
instead, I'll import ObjectId,
and this will be a type which we now can use here.
And we'll have a text field,
which will have a value of type string.
So that's now the todo type
as we get it back from MongoDB out of our database.
Therefore, that's the type I'm setting on this argument,
which will be passed into this function
we pass to map automatically
for every todo that is fetched from our collection.
Therefore in the end, we'll have to transform todos.
And those are the todos which should be returned
to the client now.
So that's a lot of code.
But with that, we should now be able to fetch todos
from the database.
Now in order to see whether that really works,
let's also work on the post route.
And let's make sure that we can add a new todo.
For that, here in create we of course create our new todo
but now I want to get access to the database
and then here again to the todos collection.
Of course, here you should use the same collection name
as here when you get todos,
otherwise you're adding and fetching
to and from different collections,
which will not be a good idea.
And then here, we can call insertOne,
and this will do just what the name implies,
it will insert one new todo.
Now here actually, since MongoDB will generate an id for us,
we no longer need to generate it on our own.
So I'll comment this out.
And I'll just pass in the new todo like this
into insertOne.
Now, of course, since we don't have an id key anymore here,
I'll go to my interface.
And by adding a question mark after id,
I actually make this optional,
so that TypeScript won't complain
if we create a todo object without an id.
So with that change made, we can create this object
and we can feed it into insertOne.
And now here we can await this action
because insertOne will return a promise.
And this promise will resolve
whenever the insertion finished.
In that case will then thereafter get information
about the id that was autogenerated by MongoDB
for the new todo,
and they offer now we can manipulate the new todo here.
And we can now add the id property on the fly,
and set it equal to id, but not like this.
Instead, id will be of type ObjectId,
and therefore again, we'll be able to access $oid
to get this id as a string.
That's simply a specific property
that exists on the ObjectId type.
That will then be our new todo.
So we'll then have our new todo with the text
and with the autogenerated id.
We don't need to add this to our local array anymore,
we can get rid of that, and we still return it however.
And if we now save all of that,
we can quit that backend server
and rerun it with deno run allow net.
And this will now download the MongoDB package
and try to start our server.
But for me, it crashes.
Why does this happen?
Well, under the hood, this Mongo module uses a Rust plugin.
I mentioned that Deno would be written with Rust,
and that the Mongo module
in the end just wraps the Rust Mongo package.
Now this is something which is actively supported by Deno.
But it uses a feature built into Deno,
which is called plugins.
So under the hood Deno has a plugin system
and the Mongo library uses this system.
Now currently, at the point of time I'm recording this,
this is only supported
if we add the unstable flag to our execution.
This might not be the case in the future,
but currently it is the case.
So when we run our app.ts file,
we need to add --unstable.
Even with that, however, it will still fail.
It now fails with a PermissionDenied error for reading.
Because it turns out that the Mongo library
also wants to read some files.
So we should also add --allow-read here as a permission,
and then try executing this again.
But now you see, it also wants write access.
So let's add this as well, allow-write.
And with that added, now it's downloading the Mongo library.
And it crashes with a plugin error,
that's the last permission we need to add, promised,
I'm just showing all these errors
so that you see that we really need those permissions.
The last permission we need to add here is --allow-plugin.
So you see that this Deno application
now needs a lot of permissions already to run.
And that's, by the way, all is what I meant earlier.
We're now granting all those permissions
and we're again trusting the Mongo library,
the Mongo module here,
that it's not doing anything fishy with those permissions.
So we're almost back in the Node world here.
Nonetheless, I can now hit Enter.
And now the only error I'm getting
is one regarding my URL,
we should have a slash here after MongoDB.net,
tiny mistake from my side.
Let's add this and then try rerunning that.
And now it should spin up our server successfully,
and it should connect to your MongoDB cluster successfully.
Assuming you configured that cluster correctly,
you whitelisted your local IP,
and you have no firewall in between or anything like that.
And with that done, let's see whether storing in a database
and fetching from a database works.
For that, I'll go back to the React application, reload it,
and add a new todo, Learn Deno.
I click Add Todo, it appears here.
I get no error on the backend.
And now if storing in a database worked,
I should be able to shut down this backend Deno server,
which I did now, and restart it.
With that normally,
all the data stored in memory will be lost.
So now if we are still able to fetch that todo,
that means that it indeed was stored in a database.
So if I now reload, here it is, here it appears,
and that means that storing in a database works,
and that we're all able to fetch from it.
Now, we already spent some time working on the database.
Let's now make sure
that updating and deleting now also works.